README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust"><img src="./public/icon_rounded.png" width="150"></a>
</p>

<h2 align="center">Atlas for Rust</h2>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/APQSQZNV7t"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Liam%20Cottle%230001-%237289DA?style=flat&logo=discord" alt="discord"/></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/liamcottle"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-@liamcottle-%231DA1F2?style=flat&logo=twitter" alt="twitter"/></a>
<br/>
<a href="https://ko-fi.com/liamcottle"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate%20a%20Coffee-liamcottle-yellow?style=flat&logo=buy-me-a-coffee" alt="donate on ko-fi"/></a>
<a href="./donate.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate%20Bitcoin-3FPBfiEwioWHFix3kZqe5bdU9F5o8mG8dh-%23FF9900?style=flat&logo=bitcoin" alt="donate bitcoin"/></a>
</p>

## What is Atlas

Atlas is an **unofficial** interactive map experience for [Rust](https://rust.facepunch.com/). It uses the same websocket protocol that the official [Rust+ Companion app](https://rust.facepunch.com/companion) uses to communicate with the Rust game servers.

<img src="./docs/map.png">

## Features

- Shows a realtime updating interactive map, including:
    - Hackable Crates
    - Cargo Ship
    - Chinook
    - Explosions
    - Vending Machines
    - Team Members
- Shows realtime server stats
    - Current player count
    - How long since last wipe
- Send and Receive realtime Team Chat messages
- Search items for sale in Vending Machines across the map
- Supports "Pairing" with Rust Servers from the in game menu
- Supports adding Rust servers manually without using the in game pairing menu
    - Useful if you run your own server and have access to server files

## Features to Implement

- Map
    - Add custom markers with colour and name to the map
- Smart Devices
    - Pair with Smart Devices
    - View list of Smart Devices per server
    - User could place custom markers on map showing where Smart Alarms are triggered
- Handle expired Rust+ Auth Tokens
- Atlas Auto Updater, currently users will need to update manually from GitHub releases

## How to Install

- Download the latest installer from [Releases](https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust/releases)
- After downloading, run `AtlasForRust-x.y.z-win.exe`
- Connect with Rust+ from the Atlas welcome screen
- Pair with your Rust server from the in game menu

## How to build for development

Download and Install Dependencies

```
git clone https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust.git
cd atlas-for-rust
npm install
```

Run Electron app for Development

```
npm run electron:serve
```

## Build for Mac, Windows and Linux

At this stage, GitHub actions only builds and releases Windows versions of Atlas. However, if you want to run Atlas on Mac or Linux, you can use the command below.

```
npm run electron:build -- --mac --win --linux
```

## Contributing

If you have a feature request, or find a bug with Atlas, please open an issue here on GitHub.

Commit message:

add docs for updating rust assets

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust"><img src="./public/icon_rounded.png" width="150"></a>
</p>

<h2 align="center">Atlas for Rust</h2>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://discord.gg/APQSQZNV7t"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-Liam%20Cottle%230001-%237289DA?style=flat&logo=discord" alt="discord"/></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/liamcottle"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Twitter-@liamcottle-%231DA1F2?style=flat&logo=twitter" alt="twitter"/></a>
<br/>
<a href="https://ko-fi.com/liamcottle"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate%20a%20Coffee-liamcottle-yellow?style=flat&logo=buy-me-a-coffee" alt="donate on ko-fi"/></a>
<a href="./donate.md"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Donate%20Bitcoin-3FPBfiEwioWHFix3kZqe5bdU9F5o8mG8dh-%23FF9900?style=flat&logo=bitcoin" alt="donate bitcoin"/></a>
</p>

## What is Atlas

Atlas is an **unofficial** interactive map experience for [Rust](https://rust.facepunch.com/). It uses the same websocket protocol that the official [Rust+ Companion app](https://rust.facepunch.com/companion) uses to communicate with the Rust game servers.

<img src="./docs/map.png">

## Features

- Shows a realtime updating interactive map, including:
    - Hackable Crates
    - Cargo Ship
    - Chinook
    - Explosions
    - Vending Machines
    - Team Members
- Shows realtime server stats
    - Current player count
    - How long since last wipe
- Send and Receive realtime Team Chat messages
- Search items for sale in Vending Machines across the map
- Supports "Pairing" with Rust Servers from the in game menu
- Supports adding Rust servers manually without using the in game pairing menu
    - Useful if you run your own server and have access to server files

## Features to Implement

- Map
    - Add custom markers with colour and name to the map
- Smart Devices
    - Pair with Smart Devices
    - View list of Smart Devices per server
    - User could place custom markers on map showing where Smart Alarms are triggered
- Handle expired Rust+ Auth Tokens
- Atlas Auto Updater, currently users will need to update manually from GitHub releases

## How to Install

- Download the latest installer from [Releases](https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust/releases)
- After downloading, run `AtlasForRust-x.y.z-win.exe`
- Connect with Rust+ from the Atlas welcome screen
- Pair with your Rust server from the in game menu

## How to build for development

Download and Install Dependencies

```
git clone https://github.com/liamcottle/atlas-for-rust.git
cd atlas-for-rust
npm install
```

Run Electron app for Development

```
npm run electron:serve
```

## Build for Mac, Windows and Linux

At this stage, GitHub actions only builds and releases Windows versions of Atlas. However, if you want to run Atlas on Mac or Linux, you can use the command below.

```
npm run electron:build -- --mac --win --linux
```

## Updating Rust Assets

Atlas uses images and metadata from the Rust game files. These can be updated with the [update_assets.js](./update_assets.js) script.

```shell
node update_assets.js "<drive>:\SteamLibrary\steamapps\common\Rust"
```

## Contributing

If you have a feature request, or find a bug with Atlas, please open an issue here on GitHub.
